If he were dead, what would betide on me? The loss of such a lord includes all harms. Ah, he is young; and his minority Is put unto the trust of Richard Gloucester, A man that loves not me, nor none of you. It is determin'd, not concluded yet; But so it must be, if the King miscarry.  Enter BUCKINGHAM and DERBY The Countess Richmond, good my Lord of Derby, To your good prayer will scarcely say amen. Yet, Derby, notwithstanding she's your wife And loves not me, be you, good lord, assur'd I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Saw you the King to-day, my Lord of Derby? What likelihood of his amendment, Lords? God grant him health! Did you confer with him? Would all were well! But that will never be. I fear our happiness is at the height.  Enter GLOUCESTER, HASTINGS, and DORSET Brother of Gloucester, you mistake the matter. The King, on his own royal disposition And not provok'd by any suitor else- Aiming, belike, at your interior hatred That in your outward action shows itself Against my children, brothers, and myself- Makes him to send that he may learn the ground. Come, come, we know your meaning, brother Gloucester: You envy my advancement and my friends'; God grant we never may have need of you! By Him that rais'd me to this careful height From that contented hap which I enjoy'd, I never did incense his Majesty Against the Duke of Clarence, but have been An earnest advocate to plead for him. My lord, you do me shameful injury Falsely to draw me in these vile suspects. My Lord of Gloucester, I have too long borne Your blunt upbraidings and your bitter scoffs. By heaven, I will acquaint his Majesty Of those gross taunts that oft I have endur'd. I had rather be a country servant-maid Than a great queen with this condition- To be so baited, scorn'd, and stormed at.  Enter old QUEEN MARGARET, behind Small joy have I in being England's Queen. As little joy, my lord, as you suppose You should enjoy were you this country's king, As little joy you may suppose in me That I enjoy, being the Queen thereof. So just is God to right the innocent. Thus have you breath'd your curse against yourself. I never did her any to my knowledge. Catesby, I come. Lords, will you go with me? There, Hastings; I will never more remember Our former hatred, so thrive I and mine! A holy day shall this be kept hereafter. I would to God all strifes were well compounded. My sovereign lord, I do beseech your Highness To take our brother Clarence to your grace. All-seeing heaven, what a world is this! Ah, who shall hinder me to wail and weep, To chide my fortune, and torment myself? I'll join with black despair against my soul And to myself become an enemy. To make an act of tragic violence. Why grow the branches when the root is gone? Why wither not the leaves that want their sap? If you will live, lament; if die, be brief, That our swift-winged souls may catch the King's, Or like obedient subjects follow him To his new kingdom of ne'er-changing night. Give me no help in lamentation; I am not barren to bring forth complaints. All springs reduce their currents to mine eyes That I, being govern'd by the watery moon, May send forth plenteous tears to drown the world! Ah for my husband, for my dear Lord Edward! What stay had I but Edward? and he's gone. Was never widow had so dear a loss. But I hear no; they say my son of York Has almost overta'en him in his growth. A parlous boy! Go to, you are too shrewd. Pitchers have ears.  Enter a MESSENGER How doth the Prince? Ay me, I see the ruin of my house! The tiger now hath seiz'd the gentle hind; Insulting tyranny begins to jet Upon the innocent and aweless throne. Welcome, destruction, blood, and massacre! I see, as in a map, the end of all. Come, come, my boy; we will to sanctuary. Madam, farewell. You have no cause. As much to you, good sister! Whither away? Kind sister, thanks; we'll enter all together.  Enter BRAKENBURY And in good time, here the lieutenant comes. Master Lieutenant, pray you, by your leave, How doth the Prince, and my young son of York? The King! Who's that? The Lord protect him from that kingly title! Hath he set bounds between their love and me? I am their mother; who shall bar me from them? Ah, cut my lace asunder That my pent heart may have some scope to beat, Or else I swoon with this dead-killing news! O Dorset, speak not to me, get thee gone! Death and destruction dogs thee at thy heels; Thy mother's name is ominous to children. If thou wilt outstrip death, go cross the seas, And live with Richmond, from the reach of hell. Go, hie thee, hie thee from this slaughter-house, Lest thou increase the number of the dead, And make me die the thrall of Margaret's curse, Nor mother, wife, nor England's counted queen. Go, go, poor soul; I envy not thy glory. To feed my humour, wish thyself no harm. Poor heart, adieu! I pity thy complaining. Stay, yet look back with me unto the Tower. Pity, you ancient stones, those tender babes Whom envy hath immur'd within your walls, Rough cradle for such little pretty ones. Rude ragged nurse, old sullen playfellow For tender princes, use my babies well. So foolish sorrows bids your stones farewell. Exeunt Ah, my poor princes! ah, my tender babes! My unblown flowers, new-appearing sweets! If yet your gentle souls fly in the air And be not fix'd in doom perpetual, Hover about me with your airy wings And hear your mother's lamentation. Wilt thou, O God, fly from such gentle lambs And throw them in the entrails of the wolf? When didst thou sleep when such a deed was done? Ah, that thou wouldst as soon afford a grave As thou canst yield a melancholy seat! Then would I hide my bones, not rest them here. Ah, who hath any cause to mourn but we?  [Sitting down by her] O, thou didst prophesy the time would  come That I should wish for thee to help me curse That bottled spider, that foul bunch-back'd toad! O thou well skill'd in curses, stay awhile And teach me how to curse mine enemies! My words are dull; O, quicken them with thine! Windy attorneys to their client woes, Airy succeeders of intestate joys, Poor breathing orators of miseries, Let them have scope; though what they will impart Help nothing else, yet do they case the heart. Hidest thou that forehead with a golden crown Where't should be branded, if that right were right, The slaughter of the Prince that ow'd that crown, And the dire death of my poor sons and brothers? Tell me, thou villain slave, where are my children? Where is the gentle Rivers, Vaughan, Grey? Though far more cause, yet much less  spirit to curse Abides in me; I say amen to her. I have no moe sons of the royal blood For thee to slaughter. For my daughters, Richard, They shall be praying nuns, not weeping queens; And therefore level not to hit their lives. And must she die for this? O, let her  live, And I'll corrupt her manners, stain her beauty, Slander myself as false to Edward's bed, Throw over her the veil of infamy; So she may live unscarr'd of bleeding slaughter, I will confess she was not Edward's daughter. To save her life I'll say she is not so. And only in that safety died her  brothers. No, to their lives ill friends were  contrary. True, when avoided grace makes destiny. My babes were destin'd to a fairer death, If grace had bless'd thee with a fairer life. Cousins, indeed; and by their uncle  cozen'd Of comfort, kingdom, kindred, freedom, life. Whose hand soever lanc'd their tender hearts, Thy head, an indirectly, gave direction. No doubt the murd'rous knife was dull and blunt Till it was whetted on thy stone-hard heart To revel in the entrails of my lambs. But that stiff use of grief makes wild grief tame, My tongue should to thy ears not name my boys Till that my nails were anchor'd in thine eyes; And I, in such a desp'rate bay of death, Like a poor bark, of sails and tackling reft, Rush all to pieces on thy rocky bosom. What good is cover'd with the face of  heaven, To be discover'd, that can do me good? Up to some scaffold, there to lose their heads? Flatter my sorrow with report of it; Tell me what state, what dignity, what honour, Canst thou demise to any child of mine? Be brief, lest that the process of thy  kindness Last longer telling than thy kindness' date. My daughter's mother thinks it with her soul. That thou dost love my daughter from  thy soul. So from thy soul's love didst thou love her brothers, And from my heart's love I do thank thee for it. Well, then, who dost thou mean shall be her king? What, thou? How canst thou woo her? And wilt thou learn of me? Send to her, by the man that slew her brothers, A pair of bleeding hearts; thereon engrave 'Edward' and 'York.' Then haply will she weep; Therefore present to her-as sometimes Margaret Did to thy father, steep'd in Rutland's blood- A handkerchief; which, say to her, did drain The purple sap from her sweet brother's body, And bid her wipe her weeping eyes withal. If this inducement move her not to love, Send her a letter of thy noble deeds; Tell her thou mad'st away her uncle Clarence, Her uncle Rivers; ay, and for her sake Mad'st quick conveyance with her good aunt Anne. There is no other way; Unless thou couldst put on some other shape And not be Richard that hath done all this. Nay, then indeed she cannot choose but  hate thee,