Why, how now, Ajax! Wherefore do you thus? How now, Thersites! What's the matter, man? Ay; what's the matter? So I do. What's the matter? Well! why, so I do. I know that, fool. What? Nay, good Ajax. Nay, I must hold you. Peace, fool. Will you set your wit to a fool's? What's the quarrel? Your last service was suff'rance; 'twas not voluntary. No man is beaten voluntary. Ajax was here the voluntary, and you as under an impress. What, with me too, Thersites? What, what? There's for you, Patroclus. Marry, this, sir, is proclaim'd through all our host, That Hector, by the fifth hour of the sun, Will with a trumpet 'twixt our tents and Troy, To-morrow morning, call some knight to arms That hath a stomach; and such a one that dare Maintain I know not what; 'tis trash. Farewell. I know not; 'tis put to lott'ry. Otherwise. He knew his man. Who's there? Where, where? O, where? Art thou come? Why, my cheese, my digestion, why hast thou not served thyself in to my table so many meals? Come, what's Agamemnon? O, tell, tell, He is a privileg'd man. Proceed, Thersites. Derive this; come. Come, Patroclus, I'll speak with nobody. Come in with me, Thersites. Exit What comes the general to speak with me? You know my mind. I'll fight no more 'gainst Troy. No. Good day, good day. What, does the cuckold scorn me? Good morrow, Ajax. Good morrow. What mean these fellows? Know they not Achilles? What, am I poor of late? 'Tis certain, greatness, once fall'n out with fortune, Must fall out with men too. What the declin'd is, He shall as soon read in the eyes of others As feel in his own fall; for men, like butterflies, Show not their mealy wings but to the summer; And not a man for being simply man Hath any honour, but honour for those honours That are without him, as place, riches, and favour, Prizes of accident, as oft as merit; Which when they fall, as being slippery standers, The love that lean'd on them as slippery too, Doth one pluck down another, and together Die in the fall. But 'tis not so with me: Fortune and I are friends; I do enjoy At ample point all that I did possess Save these men's looks; who do, methinks, find out Something not worth in me such rich beholding As they have often given. Here is Ulysses. I'll interrupt his reading. How now, Ulysses! What are you reading? This is not strange, Ulysses. The beauty that is borne here in the face The bearer knows not, but commends itself To others' eyes; nor doth the eye itself- That most pure spirit of sense-behold itself, Not going from itself; but eye to eye opposed Salutes each other with each other's form; For speculation turns not to itself Till it hath travell'd, and is mirror'd there Where it may see itself. This is not strange at all. I do believe it; for they pass'd by me As misers do by beggars-neither gave to me Good word nor look. What, are my deeds forgot? Of this my privacy I have strong reasons. Ha! known! Shall Ajax fight with Hector? I see my reputation is at stake; My fame is shrewdly gor'd. Go call Thersites hither, sweet Patroclus. I'll send the fool to Ajax, and desire him T' invite the Troyan lords, after the combat, To see us here unarm'd. I have a woman's longing, An appetite that I am sick withal, To see great Hector in his weeds of peace; To talk with him, and to behold his visage, Even to my full of view.  Enter THERSITES A labour sav'd! What? How so? How can that be? Thou must be my ambassador to him, Thersites. To him, Patroclus. Tell him I humbly desire the valiant Ajax to invite the most valorous Hector to come unarm'd to my tent; and to procure safe conduct for his person of the magnanimous and most illustrious six-or-seven-times-honour'd Captain General of the Grecian army, et cetera, Agamemnon. Do this. Why, but he is not in this tune, is he? Come, thou shalt bear a letter to him straight. My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirr'd; And I myself see not the bottom of it.  Exeunt ACHILLES and PATROCLUS 'Tis but early days.  Enter DIOMEDES, with CRESSIDA I'll take that winter from your lips, fair lady. Achilles bids you welcome. 'Tis done like Hector; but securely done, A little proudly, and great deal misprizing The knight oppos'd. If not Achilles, nothing. A maiden battle then? O, I perceive you!  Re-enter DIOMEDES I shall forestall thee, Lord Ulysses, thou! Now, Hector, I have fed mine eyes on thee; I have with exact view perus'd thee, Hector, And quoted joint by joint. I am Achilles. Behold thy fill. Thou art too brief. I will the second time, As I would buy thee, view thee limb by limb. Tell me, you heavens, in which part of his body Shall I destroy him? Whether there, or there, or there? That I may give the local wound a name, And make distinct the very breach whereout Hector's great spirit flew. Answer me, heavens. I tell thee yea. Dost thou entreat me, Hector? To-morrow do I meet thee, fell as death; To-night all friends. I'll heat his blood with Greekish wine to-night, Which with my scimitar I'll cool to-morrow. Patroclus, let us feast him to the height. How now, thou core of envy! Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news? From whence, fragment? My sweet Patroclus, I am thwarted quite From my great purpose in to-morrow's battle. Here is a letter from Queen Hecuba, A token from her daughter, my fair love, Both taxing me and gaging me to keep An oath that I have sworn. I will not break it. Fall Greeks; fail fame; honour or go or stay; My major vow lies here, this I'll obey. Come, come, Thersites, help to trim my tent; This night in banqueting must all be spent. Away, Patroclus! Exit with PATROCLUS Welcome, brave Hector; welcome, Princes all. Good night and welcome, both at once, to those That go or tarry. Old Nestor tarries; and you too, Diomed, Keep Hector company an hour or two. Come, come, enter my tent.